[Docs] Document Anonymous authentication provider. (#84910)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/security/authentication/index.asciidoc

Kibana uses SPNEGO, which wraps the Kerberos protocol for use with HTTP, extending it to web applications. At the end of the Kerberos handshake, Kibana will forward the service ticket to Elasticsearch. Elasticsearch will unpack it and it will respond with an access and refresh token which are then used for subsequent authentication.

[[anonymous-authentication]]
==== Anonymous authentication

[IMPORTANT]
============================================================================

> Since anonymous access allows anyone to access {kib} as long as they can access network {kib} is exposed to, make sure to grant anonymous service account only as many privileges as really needed.

Author: Much better, thanks!

============================================================================

Anonymous authentication gives users access to {kib} without requiring them to provide any sort of credentials. This can be useful if you want your users to skip the login step when you embed dashboards in another application or set up a demo {kib} instance in your internal network while still keeping other security features intact.

> To enable anonymous authentication in {kib}, you need to decide what credentials the anonymous service account {kib} should use internally to authenticate anonymous requests. There are three ways to specify these credentials:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable anonymous authentication in {kib}, you must decide what credentials the anonymous service account {kib} should use internally to authenticate anonymous requests. There are three ways to specify these credentials:
```

> NOTE: You can configure only one anonymous authentication provider per {kib} instance.

Reviewer: Suggest moving the sentence "There are three ways to specify these credentials" to after the Note.

> If you have a user that can authenticate to {es} using username and password, from a Native or LDAP security realms for instance, you can also use these credentials to impersonate the anonymous users. Here is how your `kibana.yml` can look like if you want to use username and password credentials:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a user who can authenticate to {es} using username and password, for instance from a Native or LDAP security realms, you can also use these credentials to impersonate the anonymous users. Here is how your `kibana.yml` might look if you use username and password credentials:
```

[source,yaml]
-----------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.providers:
  anonymous.anonymous1:
    order: 0
    credentials:
      username: "anonymous_service_account"
      password: "anonymous_service_account_password"
-----------------------------------------------

> If using username and password credentials isn't desired or feasible then you can create a dedicated <<api-keys, API key>> for the anonymous service account. In this case your `kibana.yml` can look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using username and password credentials isn't desired or feasible, then you can create a dedicated <<api-keys, API key>> for the anonymous service account. In this case, your `kibana.yml` might look like this:
```

[source,yaml]
-----------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.providers:
  anonymous.anonymous1:
    order: 0
    credentials:
      apiKey: "VnVhQ2ZHY0JDZGJrUW0tZTVhT3g6dWkybHAyYXhUTm1zeWFrdzl0dk5udw=="
-----------------------------------------------

> The configuration snippet above uses an API key string that is the result of base64-encoding of `id` and `api_key` fields returned from the {es} API joined by a colon. You can also specify these fields separately and {kib} will do concatenation and base64-encoding for you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous configuration snippet uses an API key string that is the result of base64-encoding of the `id` and `api_key` fields returned from the {es} API, joined by a colon. You can also specify these fields separately, and {kib} will do the concatenation and base64-encoding for you:
```

[source,yaml]
-----------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.providers:
  anonymous.anonymous1:
    order: 0
    credentials:
      apiKey.id: "VuaCfGcBCdbkQm-e5aOx"
      apiKey.key: "ui2lp2axTNmsyakw9tvNnw"
-----------------------------------------------

It's also possible to use {kib} anonymous access in conjunction with the {es} anonymous access.

Prior to configuring {kib}, ensure that the anonymous access is enabled and properly configured in {es}. See {ref}/anonymous-access.html[Enabling anonymous access] for more information.

> Here is how your `kibana.yml` can look like if you want to use {es} anonymous access to impersonate anonymous users in {kib}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is how your `kibana.yml` might look like if you want to use {es} anonymous access to impersonate anonymous users in {kib}:
```

[source,yaml]
-----------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.providers:
  anonymous.anonymous1:
    order: 0
    credentials: "elasticsearch_anonymous_user" <1>
-----------------------------------------------

> <1> The `elasticsearch_anonymous_user` is a special constant that indicates you wish to use {es}'s anonymous user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The `elasticsearch_anonymous_user` is a special constant that indicates you want to use the {es} anonymous user.
```

[float]
===== Anonymous access and other types of authentication

> You can configure other authentication providers in addition to anonymous access in {kib}. In this case Login Selector UI will present a dedicated `Continue as Guest` option for anonymous access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure more authentication providers in addition to anonymous access in {kib}. In this case, the Login Selector presents a dedicated *Continue as Guest* option for anonymous access:
```

[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.providers:
  basic.basic1:
    order: 0
  anonymous.anonymous1:
    order: 1
    credentials:
      username: "anonymous_service_account"
      password: "anonymous_service_account_password"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
===== Anonymous access and embedding

> One of the most popular use cases for anonymous access is when you embed {kib} into other applications and don't want to force your users to log in just to view it. If you configured {kib} to use anonymous access as the sole authentication mechanism, you don't need to do anything special while embedding {kib}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the most popular use cases for anonymous access is when you embed {kib} into other applications and don't want to force your users to log in to view it. If you configured {kib} to use anonymous access as the sole authentication mechanism, you don't need to do anything special while embedding {kib}.
```

> If you have multiple authentication providers enabled, and you wish to automatically log in anonymous users when embedding, then you will need to add the `auth_provider_hint=<anonymous-provider-name>` query string parameter to the {kib} URL that you're embedding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have multiple authentication providers enabled, and you want to automatically log in anonymous users when embedding, then you will need to add the `auth_provider_hint=<anonymous-provider-name>` query string parameter to the {kib} URL that you're embedding.
```

> For example, if you generate the iFrame code to embed {kib} it will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you generate the iFrame code to embed {kib}, it will look like this:
```

> The things become a bit tricky if you configure multiple authentication mechanisms and use Login Selector UI to log in to {kib}. In this case embedded {kib} doesn't know whether you want your users to use anonymous access or not. If the intention is to use anonymous access then you should add `auth_provider_hint=<anonymous-provider-name>` query string parameter to the {kib} URL.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to qualify the Login Selector UI here. We are trying to discourage disabling this, so I think it's safe for us to assume in these docs that it'll be enabled.

```suggestion
If you have multiple authentication providers enabled, and you wish to automatically log in anonymous users when embedding, then you will need to add the `auth_provider_hint=<anonymous-provider-name>` query string parameter to the {kib} URL that you're embedding.
```

Author: > I don't think we need to qualify the Login Selector UI here. We are trying to discourage disabling this, so I think it's safe for us to assume in these docs that it'll be enabled.

Wholeheartedly agree!

```html
<iframe src="https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/722b74f0-b882-11e8-a6d9-e546fe2bba5f?embed=true&_g=(....)" height="600" width="800"></iframe>
```

> To make this iFrame leverage anonymous access automatically, you will need to modify a link to {kib} in `src` iFrame attribute to look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make this iFrame leverage anonymous access automatically, you will need to modify a link to {kib} in the `src` iFrame attribute to look like this:
```

```html
<iframe src="https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards?auth_provider_hint=anonymous1#/view/722b74f0-b882-11e8-a6d9-e546fe2bba5f?embed=true&_g=(....)" height="600" width="800"></iframe>
```

> Note that `auth_provider_hint` query string parameter goes _before_ the hash URL fragment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that `auth_provider_hint` query string parameter goes *before* the hash URL fragment.
```

[[anonymous-authentication]]
==== Anonymous authentication

[IMPORTANT]
============================================================================
Anyone with access to the network {kib} is exposed to will be able to access {kib}. Make sure that you've properly restricted the capabilities of the anonymous service account so that anonymous users can't perform destructive actions or escalate their own privileges.
============================================================================

Anonymous authentication gives users access to {kib} without requiring them to provide credentials. This can be useful if you want your users to skip the login step when you embed dashboards in another application or set up a demo {kib} instance in your internal network, while still keeping other security features intact.

To enable anonymous authentication in {kib}, you must decide what credentials the anonymous service account {kib} should use internally to authenticate anonymous requests.

NOTE: You can configure only one anonymous authentication provider per {kib} instance.

There are three ways to specify these credentials:

> If you have a user who can authenticate to {es} using username and password, for instance from a Native or LDAP security realms, you can also use these credentials to impersonate the anonymous users. Here is how your `kibana.yml` might look if you use username and password credentials:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a user who can authenticate to {es} using username and password, for instance from the Native or LDAP security realms, you can also use these credentials to impersonate the anonymous users. Here is how your `kibana.yml` might look if you use username and password credentials:
```

If using username and password credentials isn't desired or feasible, then you can create a dedicated <<api-keys, API key>> for the anonymous service account. In this case, your `kibana.yml` might look like this:

[source,yaml]
-----------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.providers:
  anonymous.anonymous1:
    order: 0
    credentials:
      apiKey: "VnVhQ2ZHY0JDZGJrUW0tZTVhT3g6dWkybHAyYXhUTm1zeWFrdzl0dk5udw=="
-----------------------------------------------

The previous configuration snippet uses an API key string that is the result of base64-encoding of the `id` and `api_key` fields returned from the {es} API, joined by a colon. You can also specify these fields separately, and {kib} will do the concatenation and base64-encoding for you:

[source,yaml]
-----------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.providers:
  anonymous.anonymous1:
    order: 0
    credentials:
      apiKey.id: "VuaCfGcBCdbkQm-e5aOx"
      apiKey.key: "ui2lp2axTNmsyakw9tvNnw"
-----------------------------------------------

It's also possible to use {kib} anonymous access in conjunction with the {es} anonymous access.

> Prior to configuring {kib}, ensure that the anonymous access is enabled and properly configured in {es}. See {ref}/anonymous-access.html[Enabling anonymous access] for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prior to configuring {kib}, ensure that anonymous access is enabled and properly configured in {es}. See {ref}/anonymous-access.html[Enabling anonymous access] for more information.
```

Here is how your `kibana.yml` might look like if you want to use {es} anonymous access to impersonate anonymous users in {kib}:

[source,yaml]
-----------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.providers:
  anonymous.anonymous1:
    order: 0
    credentials: "elasticsearch_anonymous_user" <1>
-----------------------------------------------

<1> The `elasticsearch_anonymous_user` is a special constant that indicates you want to use the {es} anonymous user.

[float]
===== Anonymous access and other types of authentication

> You can configure more authentication providers in addition to anonymous access in {kib}. In this case, the Login Selector presents a dedicated *Continue as Guest* option for anonymous access:

Reviewer 2: This hints that they can customize the text if they'd like to 😄 

```suggestion
You can configure more authentication providers in addition to anonymous access in {kib}. In this case, the Login Selector presents a configurable *Continue as Guest* option for anonymous access:
```

[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.providers:
  basic.basic1:
    order: 0
  anonymous.anonymous1:
    order: 1
    credentials:
      username: "anonymous_service_account"
      password: "anonymous_service_account_password"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
===== Anonymous access and embedding

One of the most popular use cases for anonymous access is when you embed {kib} into other applications and don't want to force your users to log in to view it. If you configured {kib} to use anonymous access as the sole authentication mechanism, you don't need to do anything special while embedding {kib}.

If you have multiple authentication providers enabled, and you want to automatically log in anonymous users when embedding, then you will need to add the `auth_provider_hint=<anonymous-provider-name>` query string parameter to the {kib} URL that you're embedding.

> For example, if you generate the iFrame code to embed {kib}, it will look like this:

Reviewer 2: I blame Apple!

```suggestion
For example, if you generate the iframe code to embed {kib}, it will look like this:
```

Author: Oh no, so embarrassing! :see_no_evil:

```html
<iframe src="https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/722b74f0-b882-11e8-a6d9-e546fe2bba5f?embed=true&_g=(....)" height="600" width="800"></iframe>
```

> To make this iFrame leverage anonymous access automatically, you will need to modify a link to {kib} in the `src` iFrame attribute to look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make this iframe leverage anonymous access automatically, you will need to modify a link to {kib} in the `src` iframe attribute to look like this:
```
